Just to recap,
we basically created that middleware.
Which is super awesome on the edge to
protect any routes, any page that we want
it to be protected from being accessed
from anyone that doesn't have a token.
And yeah, it's very powerful,
very good use of a new feature that
the next thing [INAUDIBLE] team
universal team came up with.
So super thankful for that, because
it's actually really hard to set up.
And now what we'll do is, we got most of
our authentication stuffs set in place.
We got an API setup, we created that
route to get the user called slash me.
Next thing is we can go ahead and
create the homepage
that will use that API
call to get the user,
and fill out the homepage
to look like this.
So we'll make this page now, so we'll get
on to the part of actually making the app.
Now that we got all the foundational
stuff out of the way,
we can get on to the cool stuff.
So we'll start working on this homepage
where it has information about the user
at the top.
And it looks like it just has
the top artists this month,
which obviously we do not have an analysis
to determine the top artists this month,
seeing how our app only has three artists.
Anyway, we'll just put all the artists
there, but yeah, it'll look like this, and
we'll make some API calls,
and it'll be cool.
So in order to do that,
we need to make some helper functions
first to assist in making these API calls.
And this is just the way that I like to do
it that i've learned along the way, so,
again, this is just my thought process,
and how i've done things in the past.
Doesn't mean this the right way, or the
only way or anything, is just my opinion.
So I'm gonna walk you through
how I do some of that.
So, first thing we're gonna do is, go to
this lib folder, and i'm gonna to make
a new folder called Hooks,
we're gonna write some custom hooks.
If you never written a custom hook before,
it's not that hard.
It can be [LAUGH].
But yeah, it depends on what it is.
So we're gonna make some custom hooks and
using SWR.
So we're gonna import use swr from swr.
And I'll talk again more
about what that is.
And then we're gonna import
our fetcher from fetcher.
The first hook that we're gonna make
is going to be hook to get the user,
and then we're going to make another
hook to get all the playlists,
so we can populate the sidebar.
Because right now on the sidebar,
we have those fake playlists right?
If we go back and
look at our sidebar, there we go.
I have these fake playlists,
we're gonna use the real playlist that we
seated in the database, and
we're gonna pull those down.
And we got to do all that client side,
so we need some hooks for that.
We don't need hooks, it's just the way
that I like to do it, so you'll see why.
Because it makes it so
much easier with swr.
So the first thing is we're
gonna make one called useMe, and
I just said that out loud and
it sounded really bad.
But [LAUGH] I'm also starting
with the use word, and
the API call is me, so it's useMe.
Yeah useMe, and the way this is
gonna work is first we are gonna
use the swr hook inside
of our custom hook.
This is actually really intuitive,
so you can say use swr.
And the first argument to swr,
is the cache key of where you wanna store.
So let me describe SDR
before I even get into that.
SDR, the way that works is it's meant
as a library to do data fetching.
So it fetches some data, and and
it stores it locally like Redux would,
it stores it on your machine, okay?
And then it works with you, and
it's really cool API to figure
out when to revalidate that data.
Like I said, when you focus in and
out of a browser,
when you open up multiple
tabs it'll sync the data.
When you do a mutation, you wanna
come back and update it manually,
which we'll go back and
do on one of these pages.
It's basically that,
some abstraction around that.
So, the data doesn't have to come from
an API, you just need to get the data
from somewhere, and you need to
give it a data fetching function.
In our case, we have a fetcher function
that we're gonna use to fetch the data.
And the cache key, and
the convention that we use for
the cache keys usually just use a route.
So for use of routes, API routes as
the cache key, then we as users know that
this was for the slash me route,
this was for the slash playlist route.
That's where this is stored, and
it'll pass whatever is in
here into our fetcher.
Here's a second argument.
So in this case, we'll just say slash me.
So we wanna use STVR to go to slash me.
It's gonna take this argument slash me,
pass it to fetcher, and
if we go look at fetcher,
that's the first argument that it takes.
It takes a URL, so
it works out pretty well.
And then the second argument is data.
And we don't have any data here cuz
we're just doing a get request,
and then this is just gonna return
an object that we're gonna structure.
Here, we're gonna get the data,
or we're gonna get an error.
So it's either gonna be data,
or it's either gonna be error,
it's gonna be one of the two, not both.
And then all we're gonna do is just
return an object that has the user on it,
I'm gonna call that data,
not data transfer.
It is loading, so
i'm gonna get a loading state here, and
i'm gonna say if there's not data, and
there's not an error,
then that means we're still loading.
It either came back with data or
it came back with error,
if it didn't come back with either
one of those, it's still loading.
So loading is true,
both of those are false.
And then the last one,
it just wanna see if there's an error.
So, and also that's error, and that's it.
That's a custom hook.
Just an abstraction around useSWR.
So now, anywhere in our app where we need
to make an API call to get the user to
slash me, we've got to use this hook.
We don't have to do anything else.
And whenever the user gets updated,
we'll update this cache at slash me,
and every component in the app will
automatically get that update without
having to make an API call.
It will just get it immediately,
which is really cool, that's STVR does.
We could force it to make API calls when
we revalidate, but we probably won't.
The casting strategies are hard,
there's no right or wrong, it depends.
Got a question?
>> [INAUDIBLE] At the beginning
of creating this circle,
we talked about how it is
just comments and text, but
I think you actually have to use it or
[INAUDIBLE] get angry.
>> Yeah, you actually have to use
the keyword use, otherwise reacts like,
nope, it is not gonna work.
So yea, it does get angry.
I do not know if that is development
mode thing, like key and props, and
that's why it's get angry and
it still works in production.
Or if that's the actual you have
to do this all the time, or
otherwise it's not gonna work.
But yeah, you will get screamed at by
react in the console if you don't put use
in front of a hook.
They are really crazy about that.
The next one we wanna make is for
the playlist,
this is going to be very similar.
We haven't made an API route for
the playlist inside the API folders, but
obviously we'll get there.
But we're gonna go ahead and
make the hook for it anyway.
Assuming that the route will
be called slash playlist,
we're gonna make a hook for
these playlists, so use playlists.
And the way that that's gonna work
is pretty much the same thing,
we're gonna have data, we're gonna
have error, we're gonna have UseSWR.
That's gonna be slash playlists to a route
that we haven't created yet on the API.
And we're gonna pass in the fetcher.
That's it, and
then we're gonna do the same thing.
We're gonna return playlists,
which will be the data or
the data then come back
we'll make an array.
So nothing breaks if we do a map.
And then is loading, same thing,
that'll be not data, and not error.
And the last thing is error
if there is an error,
so we'll export this as well.
So now, we have a hook for playlists.
So anywhere we need to pull down
playlists, which I can tell you right now,
it's going to be in the sidebar.
It's also gonna be around library,
somewhere that shows you that
there's multiple pages in this app,
that shows you all your playlists or
a certain amount of playlists.
We can just use this hook, and
STVR guarantee that we only make one call,
even though we might be using in
multiple places that only made one call,
which is really cool.
So like D dupe, it'll do all this stuff.
It really does a lot of stuff, you should
take a look at the docs, is pretty cool.
I would never make a client side react
app without using something like swr,
or react query, one of the two.
I just can't go back to whatever I
was doing before that which was,
Redux, bunks, sagas, things like that.
So to me, this is much better.
And this works with Graph QL as
well because it doesn't care what
this fetcher is.
This fetcher can literally do anything,
it could make a Graph QL call,
it could not even make an API call at all.
As long as it's some function that
returns some data, it doesn't care.
So, it doesn't even know that you're
talking to an API, it has no idea.
It just says hey, i'm gonna pass this
argument to here, wherever this returns
that's where i'm catching it,
that's it, that's all it does.
But it is designed for API calls in mind,
and asynchronous fetchers, so
as long as it's asynchronous.